# Linux Command Line 201 

**Time**: 9:00 - 12:00 and 13:00 - 16:00

This course teaches you to work smarter from a command line.

In this 6-hour, 2-day online workshop you will learn how to work smarter using different Bash commands, Bash scripting and some quality of life topics. You can follow either day or both.

NOTE: You can run on your own (Linux) computer or on your favorite HPC cluster (that you already have access to).

At the end of each day, you should feel able to work smarter and able to avoid more grunt work (i.e. anything that involves repeated copypaste). 

!!! note

    Click the Home (at the top) to see the date.

## Prerequisites 

- Basic Linux, at the level of the "Linux Command Line 101" module. 

I.e. we assume you know that:

- Tab autocompletes commands
- ``man`` shows a manual
- ``cat`` shows text
- ``less`` and ``more`` show scrollable text
- ``nano`` is a text editor
- ``find`` is used for file and directory search.
- ``sort`` is used to print the output of a file in given order
- ``head`` is used to print the first lines of a file
- ``tail`` prints the lines at the end of a file
- ``echo`` displays lines of text or strings that are passed as arguments

## Topics 

- pipe
- ``wc`` and ``cut``
- Regular expressions and ``grep``
- Regular expressions and ``sed``
- Minor mention of ``awk``
- Bash scripting
- Environment variables
- Advanced redirect
- Links (hard/soft)
- Archiving/compressing data

!!! note 

    Link to the course material: <a href="https://uppmax.github.io/linux-command-line-201/" target="_blank">Linux Command Line 201</a>. 

